docs/01_about/index.rst, before:

:allow_comments: False

.. _doc_about_intro:


Introduction
============

Welcome to the offical documentation pages for of `Celbridge <https://www.celbridge.org/>`_, the free and open source community-driven Python and data pipline workbench application.

This page gives a broad overview of the workbench application and of this documentation,
so that you know where to start if you are a beginner or
where to look if you need information on a specific feature.


Before you start
----------------

You can find help on the the Celbridge  community `Discourse forum <https://celbridge.discourse.group/>`_.


About Celbridge
---------------

A multi-purpose workbench application is a complex tool and difficult to present in a few words. However, here are some of the key features of Celbridge:

- **File Explorer**
    - you work with your own files, on your own computer, privately and securely.

- **Python**
    - Celbridge allows you to speficy a Python version (and extensions) and uses UV to create a virtual machine to work within for your project.

- **Spreasdsheet Data**
    - Celbridge allows you to work with Microsoft Excel file formats, with a full visual spreadsheet front-end (curtesy of SpreadJS), so you can edit and format your spreadsheets in a natural always.

- **Spreadsheet validation**
    - a Python script can be set to run each time you make a change to a spreadsheet cell, automating spreadsheet validation/transformation.

- **Web Viewer**
    - you can view and interact with web pages and webapps through files ending with `.webapp`, where you specify a URL and the built-in webview of Celbridge presents the interactive webpage you specify in the file properties.


Organization of the documentation
---------------------------------

This documentation is organized into several sections:

- **About**
    contains this introduction as well as some Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).

- **Setting Up**
    provides details about installing Celbridge on your computer.

- **Getting Started**
    This :ref:`doc_getting_started_intro` section is the best place to start, to get to know Celbridge.

- **Examples of use**
    here several step-by-step tutorials are provided, illustrating several common Celbridge use-cases.

- **Community**
    details of how to connect with the Celbridge community.



All documentation content is licensed under the permissive Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
(`CC BY 4.0 <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/>`_) license,
with attribution to "*the Celbridge community*"
unless otherwise noted.

*Have fun with Celbridge!*

Commit message:

Add closing statement to documentation
Added a closing statement expressing hope for user satisfaction.

docs/01_about/index.rst, after:

:allow_comments: False

.. _doc_about_intro:


Introduction
============

Welcome to the offical documentation pages for of `Celbridge <https://www.celbridge.org/>`_, the free and open source community-driven Python and data pipline workbench application.

This page gives a broad overview of the workbench application and of this documentation,
so that you know where to start if you are a beginner or
where to look if you need information on a specific feature.


Before you start
----------------

You can find help on the the Celbridge  community `Discourse forum <https://celbridge.discourse.group/>`_.


About Celbridge
---------------

A multi-purpose workbench application is a complex tool and difficult to present in a few words. However, here are some of the key features of Celbridge:

- **File Explorer**
    - you work with your own files, on your own computer, privately and securely.

- **Python**
    - Celbridge allows you to speficy a Python version (and extensions) and uses UV to create a virtual machine to work within for your project.

- **Spreasdsheet Data**
    - Celbridge allows you to work with Microsoft Excel file formats, with a full visual spreadsheet front-end (curtesy of SpreadJS), so you can edit and format your spreadsheets in a natural always.

- **Spreadsheet validation**
    - a Python script can be set to run each time you make a change to a spreadsheet cell, automating spreadsheet validation/transformation.

- **Web Viewer**
    - you can view and interact with web pages and webapps through files ending with `.webapp`, where you specify a URL and the built-in webview of Celbridge presents the interactive webpage you specify in the file properties.


Organization of the documentation
---------------------------------

This documentation is organized into several sections:

- **About**
    contains this introduction as well as some Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).

- **Setting Up**
    provides details about installing Celbridge on your computer.

- **Getting Started**
    This :ref:`doc_getting_started_intro` section is the best place to start, to get to know Celbridge.

- **Examples of use**
    here several step-by-step tutorials are provided, illustrating several common Celbridge use-cases.

- **Community**
    details of how to connect with the Celbridge community.

We hope you find Celbridge easy to use and useful.

All documentation content is licensed under the permissive Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
(`CC BY 4.0 <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/>`_) license,
with attribution to "*the Celbridge community*"
unless otherwise noted.

*Have fun with Celbridge!*
