docs/08_use_cases/webapp.md, before:

# Web Application file

This use case example shows you how to create a web application file, set its default URL, and view it in the web viewer panel in Celbridge.

1. Create a new Celbridge project (or use an existing one).
2. Right-mouse click in the file explorer and choose to add a new Web Application file named **wikipedia.py**:

- choose menu: **Add | Web application file (.wbeapp)**
- enter the file name as **wikipedia.webapp**

```{image} /08_use_cases/images/new_webapp.png
:alt: Screenshot showing context menu to create a new Web Application file
:width: 75%
```

3. The new Web Application file should be created and appear in the file explorer panel.
4. Edit your new Web Application file, by double clicking on file **wikipedia.webapp** in the file explorer panel:

- the file should open as an empty web viewer, as a new tab in the Documents panel.

5. In the Inspector panel, for the Start URL property, type **https://www.wikipedia.org/**
6. Once you enter your URL (such as pressing Tab or Enter), you should see the Wikipedia home page rendered in the web view

```{image} /08_use_cases/images/webview.png
```

% :width: 75%
% :alt: Screenshot showing Console output of running hello.py script

Congratulations - you've created and set a URL for a Web Application file using Celbridge!


## Chromium Console

The web view in Celbridge includes the Chromium dev tools. The dev tools include panels such as:
- DOM Inspector
- JavaScript Console


The screenshot below illustrates the dev tools being displayed by right-mouse clicking over an web page element and selecting `Inspect` to open a pop-up Chromiumn dev-tools window:

```{image} /08_use_cases/images/webview_console.png
```

Commit message:

added web view zoom keys and Inspector forward-back button details

docs/08_use_cases/webapp.md, after:

# Web Application file

This use case example shows you how to create a web application file, set its default URL, and view it in the web viewer panel in Celbridge.

1. Create a new Celbridge project (or use an existing one).
2. Right-mouse click in the file explorer and choose to add a new Web Application file named **wikipedia.py**:

- choose menu: **Add | Web application file (.wbeapp)**
- enter the file name as **wikipedia.webapp**

```{image} /08_use_cases/images/new_webapp.png
:alt: Screenshot showing context menu to create a new Web Application file
:width: 75%
```

3. The new Web Application file should be created and appear in the file explorer panel.
4. Edit your new Web Application file, by double clicking on file **wikipedia.webapp** in the file explorer panel:

- the file should open as an empty web viewer, as a new tab in the Documents panel.

5. In the Inspector panel, for the Start URL property, type **https://www.wikipedia.org/**
6. Once you enter your URL (such as pressing Tab or Enter), you should see the Wikipedia home page rendered in the web view

```{image} /08_use_cases/images/webview.png
:alt: Screenshot showing URL in Inspector for a web application docment
```

% :width: 75%
% :alt: Screenshot showing Console output of running hello.py script

Congratulations - you've created and set a URL for a Web Application file using Celbridge!

You can ZOOM using keys `CTRL+` and `CTRL-`. In the **Inspector** there are arrow buttons to move forward and back in your page linking history. Also a button to reload the home URL, and a refresh button for the current page being viewed.

```{image} /08_use_cases/images/webview_features.png
:alt: Annotated screenshot of web application document features
```


## Chromium Console

The web view in Celbridge includes the Chromium dev tools. The dev tools include panels such as:
- DOM Inspector
- JavaScript Console


The screenshot below illustrates the dev tools being displayed by right-mouse clicking over an web page element and selecting `Inspect` to open a pop-up Chromiumn dev-tools window:

```{image} /08_use_cases/images/webview_console.png
```
