docs/index.rst, before:

.. celbridge-docs documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Dec  2 09:21:34 2025.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.


.. attention:: Work in progress - Celbridge is still in **early development**

        Any update may introduce incompatibilities with previous versions or breaking architectural changes, so always back up any data before upgrading.

        Check the status of the Celbridge on the project
        `GitHub repo <a href="https://github.com/celbridge-org/celbridge">`_

Celbridge Docs
==============

Welcome to the offical documentation pages for of
`Celbridge <https://www.celbridge.org/>`__, the free and open source community-driven Python and data pipline workbench application.

You can find the source code to Celbridge at the project's Github site: |github|

.. |github| image:: /images/github-mark.svg
    :width: 5%
    :target:  https://github.com/celbridge-org/celbridge/


The table of contents in the sidebar should let you easily access the documentation
for your topic of interest. You can also use the search function in the top-left corner.

Here's a screenshot of Celbridge in action:

.. image:: /images/celbridge_application.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing Celbridge application with Python editor panel open



.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: About
   :name: sec-general

   01_about/index
   01_about/faq

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Setting Up
   :name: sec-setup

   02_setup/installation
   02_setup/system_requirements
   02_setup/python_versions


.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting started
   :name: sec-learn

   03_getting_started/index
   03_getting_started/examples
   03_getting_started/console



.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Examples of use
   :name: use-cases

   08_use_cases/hello_world
   08_use_cases/webapp
   08_use_cases/sphinx

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Community
   :name: sec-community

   09_community/index

Commit message:

corrected link on home page, and added link to docs source Github repo

docs/index.rst, after:

.. celbridge-docs documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Dec  2 09:21:34 2025.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.


.. attention:: Work in progress - Celbridge is still in **early development**

        Any update may introduce incompatibilities with previous versions or breaking architectural changes, so always back up any data before upgrading.

        Check the status of the Celbridge on the project
        `GitHub repo <https://github.com/celbridge-org/celbridge>`_

Celbridge Docs
==============

Welcome to the offical documentation pages for of
`Celbridge <https://www.celbridge.org/>`__, the free and open source community-driven Python and data pipline workbench application.

You can find the source code to the **Celbridge application** at the project's Github site: |github|

.. |github| image:: /images/github-mark.svg
    :width: 5%
    :target:  https://github.com/celbridge-org/celbridge/


You can find the source code to this **Celbridge docs** project at: |github_docs|

.. |github_docs| image:: /images/github-mark.svg
    :width: 5%
    :target:  https://celbridge-org.github.io/celbridge-docs/


The table of contents in the sidebar should let you easily access the documentation
for your topic of interest. You can also use the search function in the top-left corner.

Here's a screenshot of Celbridge in action:

.. image:: /images/celbridge_application.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing Celbridge application with Python editor panel open



.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: About
   :name: sec-general

   01_about/index
   01_about/faq

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Setting Up
   :name: sec-setup

   02_setup/installation
   02_setup/system_requirements
   02_setup/python_versions


.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting started
   :name: sec-learn

   03_getting_started/index
   03_getting_started/examples
   03_getting_started/console



.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Examples of use
   :name: use-cases

   08_use_cases/hello_world
   08_use_cases/webapp
   08_use_cases/sphinx

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Community
   :name: sec-community

   09_community/index
